Bollywood Bop THIS WEEK; OIS Elections; Hult prize

Dear members,

1. Bollywood BOP is this week! Friday 14 Nov
2. Reminder: Call for Nominations
4. Calling all Oxford students to participate in the 2015 HULT Prize 
5. Prayog: Improving Education through Technology

1. The Bollywood BOP is this week (Friday 14 Nov 2014 9pm, The Varsity
   Club, High Street). Put on your cheesiest Bollywood costume and come for a
   night of dancing with Hindi songs! The only time of the term when you will
   find Bollywood music blasting off in a club in Oxford till 3am is back!

   Entry is £4 (university ID card required, guests allowed). We open the
   doors at 9pm, and finish at 3am.

   Drinks will be at happy hour prices till midnight.

   See the poster at
   http://posters.oxfordindiasociety.org.uk/20141114_bollywood-bop

2. Reminder: Call for Nominations

This is to remind people that the deadline for receiving nominations for
the OIS elections are Saturday 15 Nov 2014 2359 GMT. Please send your
nominations to elections@oxfordindiasociety.org.uk. Here's the Call for
Nominations email which we sent out a couple of weeks back:

-------------------------------------------------------------------------------
The Oxford India Society will have its annual elections in Michaelmas Term
to select the new committee for 2015. Being a part of the committee is a
great opportunity to organise events, network, engage with charities,
organise fun events like the Bollywood Bop; and discover new ways to
represent the uniquely diverse community of Indian students in Oxford.

We are calling for nominations for the positions of)
- President
- Secretary
- Treasurer

and also for the following teams (we are ideally looking for 3 people per
team).
- Systems
- Contact
- Events
- Publicity

People can nominate themselves for multiple teams, see
http://elections.oxfordindiasociety.org.uk/ for what each team does.

The deadline for receiving nominations is Sat Nov 15 2359 GMT 2014
All nominations should be sent to elections@oxfordindiasociety.org.uk

We are going to have a meeting of interested candidates who have nominated
themselves with the outgoing committee members on Sunday, 16 Nov 2014 at
Morris Room, Exeter College.

We shall have a Hustings on Saturday, 22 Nov 2014 at Saskatchewan Room,
Exeter College where members can meet the prospective candidates and ask
them questions. 

Cheers
Team OIS

-------------------------------------------------------------------------------
3. Radical Extremes: Questioning Contemporary Indian Politics

The Oxford India Centre for Sustainable Development (Somerville College)
and South Asia Research Cluster (Wolfson College) present two talks by
former Maoist and labour historian Dilip Simeon on contemporary radical
politics in India, covering both the extreme left and the right.

Talk I: The Broken Middle: the problem of Indian Nationalism
 (5.30-6.30pm, 13th November 2014, Old College Bar, Somerville College |
 Followed by drinks reception)

Talk II: Questioning Political Violence
 (5.30-6.30pm, 14th November 2014, Wolfson College)

Dilip Simeon was part of the Maoist movement in India, which he left in
1972 in wake of the Bangladesh crisis. From 1974 till 1994 he taught
history at Delhi University and conducted extensive research on the
politics of labour and coal mining in India. Dilip has been a visiting
fellow at Princeton, Sussex, Chicago and Leiden. He is currently Centenary
Visiting Fellow at the School of African and Oriental Studies (SOAS),
London. His semi-autobiographic novel Revolution Highway (Penguin, 2010)
has recently been translated into Hindi.

See the poster at:
http://data.oxfordindiasociety.org.uk/external/simeon-contemporary-indian-politics.pdf

-------------------------------------------------------------------------------
4. Calling all Oxford students to participate in the 2015 HULT Prize 

In partnership with President Clinton and the Clinton Global Initiative, the
Hult Prize Foundation has created the world’s largest student movement &
crowd-sourcing platform dedicated to solving the most pressing social
challenges on the planet (www.hultprize.org).
 
This year, the Hult Prize is committed to empowering students around the globe
to create solutions to the challenge of Early Childhood Education in Slums.
 
Oxford has been chosen to hold its own campus event and elect a winner that
will by-pass the 11,000 applications and proceed straight to the Regional
Finals. The campus event will take place on 
 29th November from 1-5 pm at Said Business School (SBS),
in front of a panel of executives, scholars, non-profit leaders and social
entrepreneurs.
 
Registration (http://www.hultprizeat.com/oxford) for the Campus final will
close on 20th Nov. Please see [*] for full details of the competition.
 
We also invite you to follow us on Facebook (www.facebook.com/hultatoxford) or
Twitter (https://twitter.com/HultPrizeOxford) to get the latest updates.
 
Preceding the Oxford Campus Final, we are hosting a series of talks focusing
on different aspects of this year's Hult Prize Challenge. The talks will be
held on the 6th, 10th and 19th of Nov from 6-7pm at SBS. Details for the
talks can be found at [*].

[*] http://data.oxfordindiasociety.org.uk/external/Hult-Prize-2015-Oxford.pdf
 
Sincerely,
The Hult Prize Team at the University of Oxford

-------------------------------------------------------------------------------
5. Prayog: Improving Education through Technology

Interested in improving education through technology? Looking for an
impactful volunteering experience abroad this summer? Want to visit India? 

Last year, our volunteers fund-raised 16 Ubislate tablets and helped
implement an offline learning center to supplement teaching and to boost
learning outcomes within a rural school in India. Prayog Education is back
this year, once again with an exciting new educational project!

We are an Oxford initiative which aims at improving the quality of life of
impoverished schools in the developing world by bringing together
educational technologies and high calibre universities’ students who are
looking for an impactful volunteering experience in India.

We are also looking for highly motivated individuals to join our committee
and/or volunteers to conduct a pilot study in India this coming summer.
Please see available positions:

1) Programme Director: Oversees all projects within Prayog Education.

2) Project Manager: In charge of one main project and managing the project
team.

3) Secretary: Works very closely with president to make sure the committee
and all projects are running smoothly.

4) Publicity Officer: Manages the relationship with our partners and
schools, promote Prayog!

5) Research Officer: Helps to carry out research in education and
technology field and evaluate the projects.

6) IT Director: Ideally someone who has a technical background and will be
in charge of designing the technology solution for our partner schools.

If you are interested in either volunteering or would like to join the
committee, send us an email to PrayogEducation@gmail.com and come to one of
our information sessions below to find out more! Mark the date in your
calendar now!

Session 1:
Time:  Wed 12 Nov 2014 18:30
Room: Doctorow Hall, St Edmund Hall.

Session 2:
Time:   Tue 18 Nov 2014 19:30
Room:  Emden Rooms 1 & 2, St Edmund Hall.
