Music Concert by Shahbaz Hussain + Tanya Wells TODAY; Algorithms film; Hult prize; Prayog

Dear members,

* Music Concert by tabla player Shahbaz Hussain + Tanya Wells
* ALGORITHMS - an award-winning documentary from India about blind chess players
* Calling all Oxford students to participate in the 2015 HULT Prize [20 Nov deadline]
* Prayog: Improving Education through Technology
* [Every Friday 2-3pm] India comes to Somerville
 
------------------------------------------------------------------------------
* Music Concert by tabla player Shahbaz Hussain + Tanya Wells

There is a music concert TODAY at 7pm by the world-renowned tabla player
Shahbaz Hussain and the singer/songwriter Tanya Wells.

Location: Wadham Chapel
Time: 15 November 2014, 7pm
Facebook: https://www.facebook.com/events/954471097901454/?fref=ts

Tickets £7 through tigmus.com. The tickets are being sold on a pledge based
system, where the gig only happens once enough people pledge to pay the
artists. So 'tig' for a ticket straight away!

[Details]

Tigmus, working with Oxford Pakistan Society and Oxford India Society ,
bring an amazing line up to Oxford featuring world-renowned tabla player
Shahbaz Hussain (Tabla Maestro) and the amazing singer/songwriter Tanya
Wells.

Shahbaz Hussain is regarded as one of the leading tabla virtuosos of his
generation. He has received numerous accolades for his captivating
performances, including receiving the prestigious “Son of Lahore” Award
from the Government of Pakistan in 2008.

Shahbaz began his grooming in the art of tabla at age five with his father,
the late Ustad Mumtaz Hussain – a prominent vocalist.

Shahbaz is an extremely versatile tabla player. He has mastered all the
imperative traditional skills as well as the ability to project those
skills to more contemporary styles. His solo performances have gained great
recognition all over the world. He is also much sought after for his
accompaniment skills by many of the great masters musicians of India &
Pakistan.

Shahbaz regularly travels across the world to present performances,
including throughout Europe, North America & the Asian subcontinent. He has
performed in many prestigious venues, including the Smithsonian Institute
in Washington D.C., Lincoln Center in New York and London's Royal Albert &
Queen Elizabeth Halls. His band, Indus, has received critical acclaim for
their debut album Firefly and they continue to tour the UK &
internationally.

Shahbaz will be joined by Tanya Wells. Tanya's musical inspirations span
far and wide...from American folk / blues / jazz to Indian classical music
and Sufiana Qalam.

Her nomadic upbringing has allowed her to express herself in culturally
diverse ways: She sings in Indian languages. Fundamentally, she's always on
the ear-out for heart-pumping soul music.

REMEMBER TO TIG THIS SHOW ON THE TIGMUS WEBSITE .. IT NEEDS SUPPORT TO GO AHEAD!
www.tigmus.com

-------------------------------------------------------------------------------
* ALGORITHMS - an award-winning documentary from India about blind chess players

An award-winning documentary about young blind chess players from India, 
ALGORITHMS, is screening at Phoenix Picturehouse on November 17 at 8pm. 

A 2 for 1 ticket offer is available to members of student societies. 
To avail of this offer, people need to email yoel.noorali@ourscreen.com 

Details of the screening: https://www.ourscreen.com/screening/37720

For more information about the film go to: www.algorithmsthedocumentary.com

Here are a couple of press reviews and quotations from AR Rahman and Vishy
Anand:

'Algorithms is never too sentimental, nor simplistic, and it moves confidently
with its charges towards a stirring endgame - 4 stars'
http://www.theguardian.com/film/2014/nov/06/algorithms-
film-review-blind-chess-india


‘..a completely unique film, unlike any other documentary you might see this
year, both for its content and its form.’ – The Playlist, US

http://blogs.indiewire.com/theplaylist/
review-engrossing-and-hypnotic-algorithms-explores-the-world-of-blind-chess-in-india-20141029


A.R.Rahman, India

'Algorithms is an inspiring documentary about young blind chess players from
India. This first feature film by Ian and Geetha, is a true work of passion that, 
to me, expresses the cinematic beauty and power of documentary. I hope you will agree'.


Viswanathan Anand, India

'Their spirit to play chess just like anyone else is very powerful. They do not
wish to be patronized by providing them handicaps. They prefer to be beaten fairly rather
than a politically correct draw. This is what I admire most in them. I wish Ian McDonald all the
very best. We have been in touch from the time he started making this movie. My heart is
always with the project'.


Algorithms
  Dir: Ian McDonald
  Prod: Geetha J.
  Four Moves In, We Are All Blind

www.algorithmsthedocumentary.com

Dr Ian McDonald
Senior Lecturer in Film Practice
School of Arts and Cultures
Room 3.03, Armstrong Building
Queen Victoria Road
Newcastle University
Newcastle Upon Tyne NE1 7RU 

Telephone: 0191 2226538
http://www.ncl.ac.uk/sacs/staff/profile/ian.mcdonald
http://www.algorithmsthedocumentary.com

-------------------------------------------------------------------------------
* Calling all Oxford students to participate in the 2015 HULT Prize [20 Nov deadline]

In partnership with President Clinton and the Clinton Global Initiative, the
Hult Prize Foundation has created the world’s largest student movement &
crowd-sourcing platform dedicated to solving the most pressing social
challenges on the planet (www.hultprize.org).
 
This year, the Hult Prize is committed to empowering students around the globe
to create solutions to the challenge of Early Childhood Education in Slums.
 
Oxford has been chosen to hold its own campus event and elect a winner that
will by-pass the 11,000 applications and proceed straight to the Regional
Finals. The campus event will take place on 
 29th November from 1-5 pm at Said Business School (SBS),
in front of a panel of executives, scholars, non-profit leaders and social
entrepreneurs.
 
Registration (http://www.hultprizeat.com/oxford) for the Campus final will
close on 20th Nov. Please see [*] for full details of the competition.
 
We also invite you to follow us on Facebook (www.facebook.com/hultatoxford) or
Twitter (https://twitter.com/HultPrizeOxford) to get the latest updates.
 
Preceding the Oxford Campus Final, we are hosting a series of talks focusing
on different aspects of this year's Hult Prize Challenge. The talks will be
held on the 6th, 10th and 19th of Nov from 6-7pm at SBS. Details for the
talks can be found at [*].

[*] http://data.oxfordindiasociety.org.uk/external/Hult-Prize-2015-Oxford.pdf
 
Sincerely,
The Hult Prize Team at the University of Oxford

-------------------------------------------------------------------------------
* Prayog: Improving Education through Technology

Interested in improving education through technology? Looking for an
impactful volunteering experience abroad this summer? Want to visit India? 

Last year, our volunteers fund-raised 16 Ubislate tablets and helped
implement an offline learning center to supplement teaching and to boost
learning outcomes within a rural school in India. Prayog Education is back
this year, once again with an exciting new educational project!

We are an Oxford initiative which aims at improving the quality of life of
impoverished schools in the developing world by bringing together
educational technologies and high calibre universities’ students who are
looking for an impactful volunteering experience in India.

We are also looking for highly motivated individuals to join our committee
and/or volunteers to conduct a pilot study in India this coming summer.
Please see available positions:

1) Programme Director: Oversees all projects within Prayog Education.

2) Project Manager: In charge of one main project and managing the project
team.

3) Secretary: Works very closely with president to make sure the committee
and all projects are running smoothly.

4) Publicity Officer: Manages the relationship with our partners and
schools, promote Prayog!

5) Research Officer: Helps to carry out research in education and
technology field and evaluate the projects.

6) IT Director: Ideally someone who has a technical background and will be
in charge of designing the technology solution for our partner schools.

If you are interested in either volunteering or would like to join the
committee, send us an email to PrayogEducation@gmail.com and come to one of
our information sessions below to find out more! Mark the date in your
calendar now!

Session 1:
Time:  Wed 12 Nov 2014 18:30
Room: Doctorow Hall, St Edmund Hall.

Session 2:
Time:   Tue 18 Nov 2014 19:30
Room:  Emden Rooms 1 & 2, St Edmund Hall.

-------------------------------------------------------------------------------
* [Every Friday 2-3pm] India comes to Somerville
  Old College Bar, Weeks 1-8.

Hot chai, coffee, an array of Indian snacks and a large range of Indian
publications and periodicals will be available in the Old Bar, Somerville
College, every Friday in term time.

This is a space to relax, meet others interested in India's Sustainable
Development and keep up to date with what is happening in India.

No need to book. All welcome!


