Seminar on Bhopal Gas Tragedy [1 Dec 2014, 6.15pm, Somerville College]

* Seminar on Bhopal Gas Tragedy [1 Dec 2014, 6.15pm, Somerville College]
* Recruiting Native Hindi and Urdu speakers
* [Every Friday 2-3pm] India comes to Somerville


Dear members,

The Oxford India Society, in collaboration with SOAS London is showing
webcast, followed by an online Q&A session on the 30th anniversary of the
Bhopal Gas Tragedy:

GLOBALIZATION SINCE BHOPAL: THREE DECADES OF ENVIRONMENTAL DISASTER

In commemoration of the Bhopal Disaster, this symposium reflects back on
the decades since that tragic night and asks what lessons have been
learned. Did the disaster entrench the inequalities inherent in exporting a
risky and hazardous technology in to a developing country, or have
regulatory advances since 1984 produced a safer and more equitable world?

Have the humanitarian, legal, and scientific institutions that were so
inadequate to respond to Bhopal become more sophisticated with time, or has
the legacy of Bhopal become a dangerous precedent for globalized corporate
impunity? 

Location: Flora Anderson Hall, Somerville College
Date: Monday, 1 December 2014

Schedule:
- 6.15pm Drinks reception
-    7pm Simulcast (from SOAS, London) begins

It features Dr.Vandana Shiva and Ravi Rajan (Associate Professor,
Department of Environmental Studies, University of California)

The lecture will be followed by a online Q&A session.

------------------------------------------------------------------------------
* Recruiting Native Hindi and Urdu speakers

The Dahrendorf Programme for the Study of Freedom is looking for graduate
students to work with Professor Timothy Garton Ash on Free Speech Debate. This
is a multilingual, global online research project on free speech, concentrated
on the 13-language website http://www.freespeechdebate.com/en, which students
are encouraged to visit.

We are looking for students with native-speaker language skills in English,
Spanish, French, Hindi, Chinese, Turkish, German, Arabic, Russian, Portuguese,
Farsi, Japanese and Urdu.

**Specifically like to encourage native speakers of Hindi and Urdu to apply as
these languages are always under-represented in the applications.**

We are also looking for students with expertise in the study of freedom of
expression (including law, both common law and continental European law,
philosophy, and other disciplines), journalism (including experience of online
editing), the internet, the use of social media and open educational resources.

Hours are flexible and the position is paid at the research assistance rate of
£12.50/hour. We would very much prefer students who would be here until the end
of the academic year 2015/16 (i.e., summer 2016), although others may also
apply. You would be working with a stimulating and diverse team. For more
details and to apply please email tga.pa@sant.ox.ac.uk, attaching CV and
indicating native-speaker languages and other relevant expertise. Application
deadline is 5th December. Interviews for those shortlisted will be held in
early January.

------------------------------------------------------------------------------
* [Every Friday 2-3pm] India comes to Somerville
  Old College Bar, Weeks 1-8.

Hot chai, coffee, an array of Indian snacks and a large range of Indian
publications and periodicals will be available in the Old Bar, Somerville
College, every Friday in term time.

This is a space to relax, meet others interested in India's Sustainable
Development and keep up to date with what is happening in India.

No need to book. All welcome!

Regards
Team OIS
