OIS Elections: Call for Nominations

Dear members,

The Oxford India Society has annual elections in Michaelmas Term. Joining
the Oxford India Society is a lot of fun, you will get an opportunity to
organise events, talk to charities, organise the Bollywood bop; and get to
represent the wide and diverse community of Indian students in Oxford.

We are calling for nominations for:
- President
- Secretary
- Treasurer

and also for the following teams (we are ideally looking for 4 people per team).
- Systems
- Contact
- Events
- Publicity

People can nominate themselves for multiple teams, see ROLES for what each team
does.

The deadline for receiving nominations is Fri Nov 21 2359 GMT 2014
All nominations should be sent to elections@oxfordindiasociety.org.uk

We shall have a Hustings on 22 November where members can meet the prospective
candidates and ask them questions. We shall inform as soon as we have decided
upon the venue.

ROLES

The President organises and takes the lead on all matters pertaining to the
Society; and also calls for meetings of the committee.

The Secretary ensures that the details of the Society are kept up-to-date
with the University and works with the Systems team to ensure that proper
communication workflow is maintained within the Society committee and
members.

The Treasurer maintains the bank account of the Society, keeps track of
expenditure, producing a report termly, a summarised version of which will
be available to the public. Also the Treasurer pays any recurring bills and
reimburses individual Society members for expenditure pertaining to the
Society.

Contact is responsible for all general, first-time and repeated contact of OIS
with companies, charities and other organisations. Contact decides policy on
handling incoming requests and which of them are worth following up. In case an
issue is to be followed up, a person in Contact usually takes on the
responsibility. Discussions happen on the internal contact mailing list.

Events is concerned with logistics and planning of individual events. There can
be subgroups for handling specific events like the Bollywood Bop, Holi and
Diwali. Typically, events are suggested to the team who then distribute the
tasks among themselves, or bring in new members for the tasks. Once the
planning is complete, typically Events forwards details to Publicity who take
care of emailing in the newsletter, updating the website and designing posters.

Publicity is concerned with dissemination of information about Oxford India
Society events (incoming from Events) and information which Contact has deemed
appropriate for emailing to ois-members@. There are the website and design
subteams who take care of those updating the website and designing posters and
leaflets respectively.

Systems typically can take little part in policy or day-to-day activities of
the Society. Systems is concerned with long term aspects, and ensuring
continuity of information and the IT infrastructure of the Society. They are
also responsible along with the Secretary for ensuring smooth functioning and
low-friction low-latency information flow amongst the sections.

